And this is, I had mentioned when I preached
through Genesis chapter number 36,
that it was one of the most difficult chapters
in the book of Genesis to preach through.
And that was from a perspective of developing a sermon
with regard to all of the descendants.
We made it through that portion of scripture,
looked at some very good principles
that God teaches us in his word.
Every portion of God, it says all scripture
is given by inspiration of God and is profitable.
And so we know that God has given us exactly what we need.
As we look at Genesis chapter number 38,
I think from a content perspective,
it's probably the most complicated passage
in the book of Genesis to be able to preach through.
I will skip through a couple of the verses
through the passage,
but we'll look at this chapter this evening.
The content of Genesis chapter number 38
provides us with a record of Judah's wicked behavior.
I've titled the message, the wickedness of Judah.
However, you'll find as we go through the message
this evening, that not only is the behavior
of Judah recorded, but we find that his two sons,
their wicked behavior is recorded as well.
We find this evening that as we look at the Bible,
that God addresses the subject matter of sin.
And the subject matter of sin is addressed
and we learn valuable lessons, I believe,
with regard to that subject matter
here in Genesis chapter number 38.
And the reality is that God created man
in a perfect environment, in a perfect creation
and man disobeyed, sin entered into the world.
And we find that sin is a common factor
for all people, all human beings.
I understand the Lord Jesus Christ,
100% God, 100% man, and he is the God man.
He is sinless and perfect,
but every other person to be born upon the face
of this earth is born a sinner.
And as we look at this passage of scripture,
I wanna draw your attention in verse number one,
the Bible says this, and it came to pass at that time
that Judah went down from his brethren
and turned into a certain Adulamite whose name was Hira.
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite
whose name was Shua, and he took her and went in unto her
and she conceived and bear a son and he called his name Ur.
She conceived again and bear a son
and she called his name Onan.
And she yet again conceived and bear a son
and called his name Shelah.
And he was at Chezeb when she bear him.
And Judah took a wife for Ur, his firstborn,
whose name was Tamar.
It tells us in verse number seven,
in Ur, Judah's firstborn was wicked
in the sight of the Lord and the Lord slew him.
As we look at this portion of scripture this evening,
I wanna give you five lessons that I believe we find
from Genesis chapter number 38
with regard to the subject matter of sin.
Five valuable lessons, and I hope that as we work
through the passage of scripture this evening,
that we will be challenged in our own personal walk
with the Lord, and Genesis chapter number 38
gives us these five valuable lessons.
Lesson number one this evening
from this portion of scripture is simply this.
Every human being has a sin nature.
There are some that have the idea,
well, you talk about sin, I'm not really,
I'm exempt from that.
No, you're not, none of us are,
and we all have a sin nature.
We understand, the Bible tells us
that we're at enmity with God.
If you read Romans chapter five in verse number 10,
you understand that we're at enmity with God.
You also understand this truth,
the book of Ephesians chapter two,
verses two and three deals with the subject matter
of our condition before salvation,
and we all had our conversation,
we're all in that same position,
but it talks about the fact that our flesh
has these desires, these fleshly desires,
and I would say this this evening
when we understand that every human being
has a sin nature, that our flesh has wicked desires.
I've said, as I preached in the book of 1 John last year,
that it'd be a wonderful thing from our perspective,
but we understand that God does all things well.
He knows better than we do,
but from our perspective,
oftentimes we would think it'd be wonderful
at the moment of salvation,
if our flesh was just eradicated
and we didn't have to deal with it anymore,
and the reality is that's just not how it works,
and after salvation, we find that we are a new creature,
old things are passed away,
behold, all things become new,
but we still have that old man,
and there's a principle that we find within the scriptures
of putting off and putting on.
The Bible tells us this, that if we walk in the spirit,
we shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh.
Understand this evening that your flesh and my flesh
has worldly, wicked, lustful desires.
It's more for us to understand that tonight
as we look at this portion of scripture.
Listen, God has recorded for billions, really,
of people throughout human history
to be able to read the content of Genesis chapter 38
and to read of the wicked behavior of Judah.
I mentioned this last week.
I'm thankful and I believe that you would be thankful
as well that God has not chosen to record
your sinful behavior for everyone else to be able to read.
Amen?
And we find here in Genesis chapter 38,
yes, we learn some lessons, but we see, first of all,
that every human being has a sin nature.
In James chapter number four,
and we'll be right back into the Genesis 38,
so hold your place there, but in James chapter number four,
I want you to understand that the Bible says this,
and we begin to think about the sin nature.
Sometimes in our minds, we begin to try to categorize sin
and we try to look at things as,
well, it's not really that bad,
and we try to justify and excuse our behavior, our sin.
Sometimes we don't like to call it sin.
Why?
Because we wanna feel better about ourselves,
and so we don't really call it what it is.
We don't look at it as being wicked and ungodly and vile.
We look at it as, well, you know,
kind of everybody does that,
and it's just a, you've heard the expression, no doubt.
It's just a little white lie.
You've heard somebody use that expression.
God says that he hates lying.
By the way, in the list that God provides
in the book of Proverbs,
the lying tongue finds itself twice in that list.
Pride, God hates pride.
The Bible says, God resisteth the proud,
but giveth grace unto the humble,
and we find here this evening
that sometimes we think about sin.
We're so, and we'll get to it
as we get through the message this evening,
we begin to look at sin and we begin to compare,
say, well, I'm really not that bad.
I really don't do, you know, I've never murdered anybody,
and we have these things in our mind,
but the reality is that we understand
that there are sins, as I would say, sins of commission,
but there are also sins of omission.
The Bible says in James 4 in verse number 17,
notice what the Bible says.
Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good
and doeth it not, to him it is sin.
To him that knoweth, therefore,
to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not,
to him it is sin.
We think about sin and we could,
this evening we could understand
there are sins of omission,
things that we know that we should do that we don't do,
sins of omission, sins of commission,
things that we shouldn't do that we do.
We could understand,
even as we look at the passage of Scripture
in Genesis chapter number 38,
that there are private and also public sin.
I believe that as you look at this portion of Scripture,
and it's so quickly how the Bible
in these first seven verses deals with Judah
leaving the place.
Remember, as we studied at the end of chapter number 37,
it was the boys that came back to Jacob and said,
hey, we have found this coat of many colors.
They don't refer to it that way.
They just simply say, this have we found,
no, not whether it be thy son's coat or no.
We find that that's where we leave off with Judah.
He was the one that spoke up as they had determined
that they were gonna kill Joseph.
He speaks up and says,
what profit is if we slay our brother and conceal his blood?
And the Bible very quickly transitions and focuses
in just one chapter in Genesis chapter 38
on the life of Judah.
And it covers where he goes to this place
and he meets this person and the involvement,
the marriage, if you will.
And you find that the Bible speaks about his three sons
and their wicked behavior very quickly
goes through the journey of Judah going
and the relationship that results in the children.
The Bible says that Er, Judah's firstborn
was wicked on the side of the Lord and the Lord slew him.
We don't know exactly how much time has passed
here in these first few verses of Genesis chapter 38,
but we do see that in this portion of scripture
that God is putting this highlight
in letting us see and learn some lessons.
And the first lesson is that we understand
that there is every human being has a sin nature.
We speak about some private sin.
As you look at the sin of Er and Onan,
I believe and I would argue this evening
that no doubt there was some influence
from Judah in the lives of his children.
I understand this evening that we cannot control
the behavior of our children.
I understand this evening that we can raise them
and we can teach them to do what's right.
But we understand this evening
that they have choices to make themselves.
However, when you look here at the portion of scripture
and you see some of the public sin of Judah,
there's no doubt in my mind
that there was some private sin taking place,
some things that the boys were no doubt exposed to.
find that it results in their own wicked behavior.
We see these public and private sins
of commission and omission.
If we're to take a journey through this portion
of scripture, I would start in verse number two
as we would look at the sin nature.
And notice the first sin of Judah is given to us
in verse number two where the Bible says
that Judah saw that a daughter of a certain Canaanite
whose name was Shua, and he took her and went in unto her.
So the first sin of Judah was that he married a Canaanite.
Now I can actually not argue really definitively
that he even married her.
The Bible does not say that he married her.
It's an assumption.
There are Bible scholars and theologians
that have come on both sides of the equation
on whether or not he actually married her.
The Bible simply says that he took her
and went in unto her.
And so we would understand that the Bible would teach us
as we've looked already.
Remember, Jacob had been given the instruction
with regard to not marrying a Canaanite,
so on and so forth.
And so we find that this is the first revelation to us
in this portion of scripture with regard
to the sinful behavior, that decision.
Notice, if you will, in verse number seven,
you see the sin of Ur.
The Bible does not state for us exactly what his sin is,
but notice what the Bible says.
In Ur, Judah's firstborn was wicked
in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord slew him.
His specific sin is not recorded for us
in this portion of scripture.
There are assumptions that can be made,
but we do not see the specific nature of what it is.
We find that in verse number 10,
notice what the Bible says about Onan.
This is the firstborn and the secondborn of Judah
here in this portion of scripture.
The Bible says in verse number 10,
the thing which he did, speaking of Onan,
displeased the Lord, wherefore he slew him also.
So we find that Ur and Onan, the first two sons of Judah,
their wicked behavior is revealed to us,
and we find that it brought great consequence to it.
The explanation of the sin of Onan
is given to us in verses eight and nine,
and we find that God provides for us the record there
of what's going on in Onan's life.
Continue looking at Judah.
In verse number 11, we see that the Bible says this,
then said Judah to Tamar, his daughter-in-law.
Now remember, in verse number six,
the Bible says that he took a wife for Ur, his firstborn,
whose name was Tamar, and after God slew Ur,
God, excuse me, Judah gave Onan to Tamar to be her husband,
and then he was killed as well,
and so in verse number 11, the Bible says
that Judah spoke to Tamar, his daughter-in-law.
Here's what he says, remain a widow at thy father's house
till Shelah, my son, be grown.
That's the third son that's mentioned in verse number five.
For he said, lest peradventure he die also
as his brethren did, and Tamar went and dwelt
in her father's house.
So he, Judah, provides Tamar with an explanation.
He says, go back to your father's house and remain a widow,
and when this, my third son, is grown,
I will give him to thee to be a husband to thee,
and she went and dwelt in her father's house.
Notice in verse number 14, the Bible says this,
and she put her widow's garments from off her,
off from her, and covered her with a veil
and wrapped herself and sat in an open place,
which is by the way of Timnath,
for she saw that Shelah was grown,
and she was not given unto him to wife.
Again, in verse number 26 of our text of Scripture,
the Bible says that Judah acknowledged them
and said, she hath been more righteous than I.
Why?
Because then I gave her not to Shelah, my son,
and he knew her again no more.
And so we find that in verses 11, 14, and 26,
the verses that we just read,
Judah was guilty of breaking his word.
Ever, see, we don't look at that as being as bad
as the other sin of Judah in this portion of Scripture.
You know, we make a commitment,
we ought to honor our word.
You know, there's a day in our nation that men were,
when I use the term men, mankind, humans, men and women,
they, their word meant something.
You could have an agreement with somebody,
and there was a time in our nation's history
where you could just have a handshake,
and it meant something.
People were people of integrity.
People that honored their word.
Now you enter into a contract and you got 47 pages
you have to sign with all kinds of exemptions
and this, that, and blah, blah, blah,
and so on and so forth, and it's just a mess.
Why?
Because we live in a crazy world.
Litigation has gone out of control.
And the fact of the matter is that people lack integrity.
Lack integrity.
You say, well, that's not as bad as the other sin
that takes place in the text of Scripture.
And you can argue the severity of sin.
I would say to you that sin is sin, and God sees it,
and here's what happens sometimes in our lives.
We may lack integrity and we just kind of excuse it
or ignore it because it's not as bad as something else.
And that's a danger.
Why?
Because sin is wicked.
And sin must be dealt with.
And we find here that the Bible tells us about Judah
breaking his word, lacking integrity.
We read also in the portion of Scripture
when we speak about this first principle
that every human being has a sin nature,
we see the inappropriate relationship of Judah.
It begins with the introduction really
to what takes place is given to us in verse 12.
It says, and in process of time,
the daughter of Shua, Judah's wife, died,
and Judah was comforted and went up onto his sheep shears
to Timnath, he and his friend Hira the Adullamite.
And so we find that they go up to this place
for the purpose of being comforted
after the death of Shua,
and we find that the Bible tells us in verse number 13
about Tamar, and she was there in that place,
and she knew that her father-in-law was coming there.
We read verse 14 already about her behavior,
but notice what the Bible says in verse 15
with regard to this inappropriate relationship.
The Bible says that when Judah saw her,
he thought her to be in Harlot.
Why?
Because she had covered her face.
And notice what the Bible says in verse 16,
and he turned unto her by the way and said,
"'Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee,'
for he knew not that she was his daughter-in-law.
And she said, what wilt thou give me
that thou mayest come in unto me?'
And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock.
And she said, will thou give me a pledge
till thou send it?
And he said, what pledge shall I give thee?
And she said, thy signet, thy bracelets,
and thy staff that is in thine hand.
So the Bible says, he gave it her and came in unto her,
and she conceived by him."
That's wicked.
It's almost beyond our ability to believe
except for the Bible records it.
And as we look at this portion of Scripture
and we see what's taking place,
and we see the way in which it begins
with the relationship there with the Canaanite,
as it's mentioned in verse number two.
And we find that as you look at this portion of Scripture
and you find that eventually, obviously, they got married.
In verse number 12, it refers to her as being his wife.
And we find that she dies
and now he's going to be comforted.
But look at how he's seeking to be comforted.
And the Bible tells us that he sees this opportunity
and he really, he gives up.
Look what he gives up, his signet.
That was what identified him.
It was how you would stamp a document.
It was like your signature.
And he gave up his signet, his bracelets, and his staff
for this moment of pleasure, if you will.
And we find that this inappropriate relationship
that's given here, the record that's provided to us,
we see this wicked behavior and say,
I would never do something like that.
Be careful.
You know what happens?
There's a progression.
Every human being has a sin nature.
And I have written in my notes,
be careful of the slippery slope of sin.
You know what happens?
We start making decisions
that are outside of the will of God
that are contrary to the word of God
and to the law that God has given us,
the instruction that God has provided us with.
And we start making those decisions.
And then all of a sudden what happens
is we start having a calloused heart.
We start having what the Bible talks about grieving
and quenching the Holy Spirit of God.
We come to the place where we have misidentified
and misunderstood God's long suffering
for being God's approval.
And we think that God must be okay with it
because God hasn't judged me.
And I did this and I did that.
And I don't see, I don't hear.
There's no judgment in my life.
And we begin to think it's okay.
We get that calloused heart.
We get to the place where we've grieved
and we've quenched the Holy Spirit of God.
This evening, I begin to think about the work
of the Holy Spirit of God.
And maybe at some point in our Christian lives,
hopefully even at this very moment in our Christian lives,
I trust that this message this evening
would be a preventative message.
But we understand this evening
that there's a time in our lives
where as we would even particularly think
about doing something that would be wrong,
that the Holy Spirit of God would convict us.
But what happens is, is we have that seared conscience
that we speak of because we've grieved
and we've quenched the Holy Spirit of God.
All of a sudden.
sin, we don't sense that conviction in our lives. We get in a place where we think that
things are okay. We listen to voices of other people that say, oh, everybody else is doing
it. What's the big deal? The big deal is that sin is what sent Jesus to the cross. Sin is
sin. And we see in this passage of Scripture that every human being has a sin nature, and
we see these things outlined between Judah, Ur, and Onan for us in the text of Scripture.
Principle number two, we see number one, that every human being has a sin nature. I would
say number two, you cannot control the consequences of your sin. You know how many people have
believed the lie of the devil that think they can control their sin, that they can control
the consequences of their sin. They can dabble in this and they can play over there. Listen,
you can't play with fire and not get burnt. We find this evening that we seem to think
in our minds that we can control the consequences, though we've seen tragic things happen in
the lives of other people. We've seen just families fall apart because of decisions that
were made, and we see all sorts of things that have transpired. We have records in God's
Word of these things that have transpired. We see it in our own society, and we say,
that's not going to happen to me. I'm exempt from that. Oh, the Bible says in Galatians
6-7, be not deceived. God has not mocked whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. We find
that as we consider the consequences of our sin, we find here in the text of Scripture,
the Bible tells us at the end of verse number 15 that she, Tamar, conceived by Him. I don't
think for one second of time that that's what Judah thought would happen. We find that the
Bible tells us, if you look down at verse number 24, and it came to pass about three
months after. I understand that three months goes quickly, but I would believe that as
you look at this portion of Scripture, and obviously in verses 20-23, Judah went to send
that kid, the kid of the goats, to her. He had given that pledge, but we find that he,
the kid from the flock, he's going to send to her, and his friend, the Adolamite, he
can't find her, and time kind of passes, and it almost could be like you think that maybe
nothing's going to happen, there are no consequences. But then three months later, he receives word.
Can I say this? We think about the consequences of sin, you can't control them, but let me
say this, the harvest isn't immediate. The harvest isn't immediate. You plant a seed,
there's a period of time before you partake of the fruit. There's a process of cultivating
and watering and nurturing, and eventually that fruit comes. You know, there are some
fruit trees that will take years before they produce. You can't just go plant an apple
tree and think you're going to have apples tomorrow, it doesn't happen that way. And
so we find this evening that the harvest is not immediate, and that's sometimes what happens
is people, listen, this evening so often we're thinking in our minds that messages
such as this are for young people, and they need to take heed and be careful, and it's
true, they do. They need to take heed, but I would tell you this evening that Judah's
not a young person. Judah's got three boys. Two of them have already been killed. And
the other one, his youngest of the three, is old enough to be the husband of Tamar,
and hasn't been given to her. So Judah's not a teenager in this portion of Scripture.
Listen this evening, we need to be careful that we do not think more highly of ourselves
than we ought to, to think, ah, it's not going to affect me, I'm above that, I can, no, no,
no, no. Sin is, sin brings with it consequences, and you can't control your consequences. Sin
brings death. Here in the passage of Scripture, the Bible tells us that sin brings shame.
The Bible says in Judah, it said, let her, in verse 23, take it to her, lest we be shamed.
I want you to notice in James chapter 1, in verses 13 through 15, the Bible tells us this
with regard to sin. In James 1 and verse 13, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted
of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man
is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed, then when lust hath conceived
it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. This evening,
countless people through the ages have thought that they can control the consequences of
their decisions of their sin. Do not be deceived. Understand that you cannot control the consequences
of your sin. It's not going to happen to me. Be careful. Take heed, lest you fall. That's
what the Bible teaches us. Number three, the third principle from this portion of Scripture,
I would say this, you cannot hide your sin from God. You cannot hide your sin from God.
Just as many have thought that they can control the consequences of their sin, they think
that they have it under control. The reality this evening is that countless people have
thought that they could hide their sin from God. And we find it in the text of Scripture.
You read about Ur, Judah's firstborn. Again, the actual event or the actual sin that he
commits is not recorded for us, but we believe, as you look at this portion, obviously God
is the one that revealed it. Why? Because it says that he was wicked, notice the word
in verse number seven, in the sight of the Lord. Judah may not even have known why Ur
was killed. But God knew what Ur was doing. Onan, if you read the portion of Scripture,
I think that he thought he could get away with his actions. We find that in verse number
ten, it says that the thing which he did displeased the Lord. The thing that he did,
it displeased the Lord. Do you think that Judah thought that he could cover, could hide
his sin here in this portion of Scripture? When he goes and he's dealing with this, he
engages in that moment of pleasure, if you will. But the Bible tells us in verse number
twenty that Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend, the Adulamite, to receive his
pledge from the woman's hand, but he found her not. He thought, this is going to work
out just fine. Yes, I gave her my signet, I gave her my bracelets, and I gave her my
staff, but I'm just going to get that kid sent up there, and she's going to give all
that stuff back, and no one is ever going to know. God knew. God knew. The Bible says
that he found her not in verse twenty. Verse twenty-one, then he asked the men of that
place, saying, where's the harlot that was openly by the wayside? And they said, there
was no harlot in this place. He returned to Judah and said, I cannot find her, and also
the men of the place said that there was no harlot in this place. Judah's probably concerned
at this point. There are many that we can look to in the Scriptures that thought they
could hide their sin from God. Can I remind you of Rachel when she took of the images?
Can I remind you of the troubler of Israel, Achan, when he took of the accursed thing?
Can I remind you of David? He went through great lengths thinking he could cover, could
hide his sin. Can I remind you in the New Testament of Ananias and Sapphira? Oh, we
sold our property and we gave everything to church. But they held back a portion, and
they thought that, man, that just the two of them would know, nobody else would know.
They come in to bring that offering, and here comes in the husband, and Peter says,
why hath Satan caused you to lie to God? Can you imagine the feeling at that moment? They
thought they were hiding it. They thought they could cover it. Listen this evening,
you cannot hide your sin from God. Proverbs 5 and verse 21 tells us this with regard to
our God. It tells us in Proverbs 5 and verse 21, for the ways of man are before the eyes
of the Lord, and he pondereth, notice what it says, all his goings. For just a moment,
I'd speak to the young people. Today we have, and we've mentioned before, there's these
cell phones. Listen, these things are helpful with a lot of things. They really are. We've
come to the place, somebody told me this morning, oh, I left my cell phone at home. I said,
do you remember the time that we didn't have cell phones that we could leave them behind?
I remember that time, right? I didn't always have a cell phone. These are very powerful,
and they're very helpful. I have apps on here that are extremely helpful. It helps you to
be connected and so on and so forth, but I can tell you this evening that sin is just
a touch away. I mean, wickedness. You understand there are apps that young people are using
today that are a facade. It's not really what the app is, and a parent can say, oh, I'm
checking my kid's phone, and the reality is that they're not seeing anything because you
got to go into these.
It's, listen, God knows.
God knows.
There are things that we think we can do in secret
and we think that no one is ever going to know.
Listen, don't be deceived.
You cannot hide your sin from God.
Proverbs 5.21 tells us that in chapter 15
in verse number three of the book of Proverbs.
It says, the eyes of the Lord are in every place
beholding the evil and the good.
Beholding the evil and the good.
Psalm 45 in verse number seven tells us this.
It says, thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness.
Listen, if God sees all things, he knows all things.
His eyes are beholding all things.
And the Bible says that he loveth righteousness
and he hateth wickedness.
The righteous God loveth righteousness, Psalm 11.
We find this evening that the third principle
that we learn in this portion of scripture
is that it is absolutely impossible.
You cannot hide your sin from God.
Let me say this, number four,
as we continue to move through the portion of scripture,
I would say this, sin is deceptive.
Sin is deceptive.
In Hebrews three in verse 13,
the Bible speaks about the deceitfulness of sin.
We find in this portion of scripture,
when we think about sin being deceptive
and we find here as to what's going on,
I would say that as we consider this thought,
as I was studying through this portion of scripture
and considering the truth that sin is deceptive,
a couple of thoughts come to mind.
Number one is this,
we are more likely to judge others than ourselves.
Remember the moat and the beam Jesus spoke of?
We are more likely to judge others than to judge ourselves.
But the Bible tells us that we're to judge ourselves.
I know there are a lot of people that run around,
they say the Bible says judge not lest you be judged.
The Bible actually tells us that we're to judge all things,
but the judgment's supposed to start with us.
In fact, Peter talks about judgment
starting at the house of God.
In first Corinthians 11,
the passage that we use as we observe the Lord's supper
so often, we speak about the fact that the Bible says,
let a man examine himself.
It says that if we would judge ourselves,
we should not be judged.
And the reality is that doesn't mean
that if I judge myself, that Tim's not gonna judge me.
It means that I'm not concerned about Tim judging me.
Why?
I've already judged myself.
And by the way, if I come to a place where I'm saying,
let a man examine himself,
I've also stood before the Lord and said,
Lord, search me as the psalmist said,
and show me if there'd be any wicked way.
And all of a sudden, if I've been searched by God Almighty,
and I've had honestly and humbly sought the face of God
and examined myself,
we will not be concerned about others judging us.
But I find this evening with the deceptive nature of sin,
that what happens is those often that are involved in sin
are so quick to point out
and to judge the sin of other people.
Why?
Because they're trying to keep the attention
off of themselves.
And they're trying to point out the sin of these people
and those people and so on and so forth,
while they themselves are living sinful lives,
but they're trying to deflect that attention.
Why?
Because they're deceived.
I would say this, number two,
not only are we more likely to judge others than ourselves,
but I would say this,
we're more likely to call for harsh judgment
on others for their sin,
while ignoring or excusing our own sin.
Let me say that again.
We are more likely to call for harsh judgment
on others for their sin,
while at the same time we ignore or excuse our sin.
Notice in our text in Genesis 38,
the Bible tells us in verse 24.
In Genesis 38, verse 24, it says,
and it came to pass about three months after
that it was told Judah saying,
Tamar thy daughter-in-law hath played the harlot
and also behold, she is with child by whoredom.
Judah, notice his response in verse 24,
bring her forth and let her be burnt.
That's harsh judgment.
He was guilty.
But he's calling for harsh judgment because of her sin,
while at the same time ignoring his own sin.
And it's very interesting what Tamar does.
The Bible says that when she was brought forth in verse 25,
she sent to her father-in-law saying,
by the man whose these are, am I with child?
And she said, discern, I pray thee, whose are these?
The signet and bracelets and staff.
Can you imagine?
What happened when Judah and the brethren of Joseph
went to Jacob?
They said, this have we found,
know now whether it be thy son's code or no.
And here Tamar stands expecting
because of the inappropriate relationship that took place
is recorded in verses 15 through 18.
We find that Judah calls for her to be judged harshly,
to be burnt.
And she says, by the man whose these are, am I with child?
Wow.
Verse 26, that Judah acknowledged them and said,
she had been more righteous than I.
We read the verse a moment ago,
because that I gave her not to Sheolah my son
and he knew her again no more.
This evening, sin is deceptive.
And we find, can I remind you of 2 Samuel 12 in verse five?
Can I remind you of what David said?
Remember David in his sin with Bathsheba,
we find that Nathan comes and stands before David
and he tells him this story.
David, after hearing the story the Bible tells us
is recorded in 2 Samuel 12 in verse five,
and David's anger was greatly kindled against the man.
He didn't know who he was angry with,
but he heard the story that Nathan said and he was angry.
And the Bible says that he says to Nathan,
as the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing,
notice what he says, shall surely die.
David was in a position where he was calling
for harsh judgment, while at the same time,
listen, he tried to cover his sin, did he not?
The Bible says that Nathan in verse number six
stood before David and said, thou art the man.
Can you imagine?
Listen, this evening when we think about
this subject matter of sin, if we're not careful,
we'll be engaged in some type of sinful behavior
in our own lives, but we ignore it or excuse it
while we're judging others and looking at the sin of others
and calling for harsh judgment upon those
that are living lives of sin, while we are seeking to hide,
ignore, justify, excuse, whatever term you wanna use.
First John chapter one says this,
I mentioned it in Sunday school this morning,
in verse number eight and again in verse number 10,
that if we say that we have no sin,
number one in verse number eight, we deceive ourselves.
In verse number 10, we make God a liar.
In verse number eight and verse number 10,
the Bible talks about that his truth or his word
is not in us, it's referenced both ways
in verse eight and verse number 10.
This evening, there's not one amongst us
that's without sin.
The question is, what do we do
as God points out sin in our lives?
You say, pastor, I'm not doing anything like that.
I hope you're not, but can I tell you
that we're dishonest with people, we lie to people,
we have pride, we don't do the things
that we know that we're supposed to do.
Sin, sin, we gotta deal with it.
We can't just excuse it and ignore it.
We can't, listen, God cannot just overlook our sin.
I'm thankful to be saved by the grace of God,
but I understand this evening that though I'm saved
and I'm heaven bound, that sin in the life of a believer
hinders our fellowship with God.
It hinders our effectiveness for God.
God doesn't use dirty vessels.
Do we understand that this evening?
He doesn't use dirty vessels, he uses clean vessels.
And we have to constantly go back to that brazen altar,
if you will, or excuse me, to the laver, if you will.
We gotta keep going back to the laver
to be cleaned for service.
And we find this evening that as we look
at this portion of scripture,
that we see the deceptive nature of sin
and we can get so focused on what everybody else is doing
and just kind of, I'm not really that bad.
Somebody said, not to me, it was recorded by another pastor,
but I wanna make sure I make that clear,
because what they said is, pastor,
sin is different in the lives of believers.
The pastor said, yes, it's worse.
Why?
Because we know, we have the Holy Spirit of God within us.
Do you understand that lost people
can't help themselves but to sin?
They're bound by sin, is what the Bible says.
But we no longer are in bondage to sin.
We have been delivered, not only from the penalty of sin,
but from the very power of sin.
And I'm so thankful for that.
One day, we sang about it in the last.
song that we sang this evening, there's a fountain. One day we're going to be delivered
from the presence of sin. We're going to be with our Savior and there's going to be no
more sin. Hallelujah. But until that day we've got to deal with sin in our lives. Every human
being has a sin nature, number one. Number two, we find that you cannot control the consequences
of your sin. Number three, you cannot hide your sin from God. Number four, sin is deceptive.
Number five, our God is gracious. Our God is gracious. Listen, I'm so thankful for the
truth of this fifth point, this fifth truth from this portion of Scripture this evening,
that our God is gracious. Let me read to you Romans chapter number five, down through the
end of that chapter and into the sixth chapter. In Romans 5 in verse number 20, down through
verse number two of chapter six, Romans 520 through 6-2, the Bible says this,
Moreover the law entered that the offense might abound. Notice what the Bible says,
but where sin abounded. I would say in Genesis 38, sin abounded. The Bible says,
Grace did much more abound. That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign
through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. Verse one of chapter six,
what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Notice very pointedly in
verse number two, God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? I'm
thankful that I'm no longer a servant of sin. Notice in verse 17 of chapter six, it says,
But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form
of doctrine which was delivered to you. Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants
of righteousness. I'd rather be a servant of righteousness than a servant of sin. And I'm
thankful that our God is gracious. The reality that God is gracious, this reality that we see
in this portion of scripture, does not promote sinful living. Understand this evening that the
truth that our God is gracious and He's ready to pardon and ready to forgive, and that with thee
as the psalmist is there is forgiveness, that reality with regard to who our God is, that does
not promote sinful living amongst the people of God. It is far better, on so many levels,
it is far better to not sin. But it certainly is a blessing to know that our God is gracious and
that He's ready to pardon. That as He says in 1 John 1, 9, that if we confess our sins, He is
faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I wonder this evening,
when's the last time we confessed our sins? You understand the word confess means to say the same
thing, to agree with God. I would say this, it's not just a matter of God if I sin today, no, no,
no, start over. It's not God if I sin today, would you forgive me? Because we know that we've sinned
and it's coming clean with God and coming before God and saying, God, that thought, that action,
that word, that fill-in-the-blank, that was sin. God, forgive me, cleanse me, help me to walk in
the Spirit so that I would not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And so we find that our God is
gracious, that's not an excuse, that does not promote sinful living. It's better, again, on so
many levels that we live a life that's pure and holy. He said that we're to live holy, that we're
to be holy in all manner of conversation, that we're to live a life of obedience to the Lord.
But I'm so thankful that though we are saved, we have this flesh and I'm gonna sin and you're
gonna sin, but we have a God who's gracious and he's merciful. You know why we understand that
from this passage of Scripture? As you conclude Genesis chapter 38, you read about twins that are
born. The Bible tells us that as she, Tamar, was with child, that it says in verse 27, it came to
pass in the time of her travail that, behold, twins were in her womb. Notice in verse number 29,
it says, and it came to pass as he drew back his hand that, behold, his brother came out. She said,
how hast thou broken forth this breach to be upon thee? Therefore, his name was called Phares. And
afterward came out his brother that had the scarlet thread upon his hand and his name was called Zara.
And you can read of that scarlet thread back in verse 28 to see what the midwife did with regard
to tying that scarlet thread on. But I want you to see that these twins are born. You say, okay,
pastor, that's wonderful. But I want you to understand this evening when we think about the
grace and mercy of God that Phares is listed in the genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you read
in Matthew chapter 1 in verse number 3, you see this son of Judah that is in the line, the messianic
line of our Savior. That's grace. That's grace. Remember that Hebrews 7 in verse number 14, as it's
speaking about the priesthood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that we have a great high
priest. Remember, he's not after the Aaronic priesthood. He's after a different priesthood,
after the order of Melchizedek. And the Bible tells us that we know that he, Christ, came from
the tribe of Judah. That's grace. That's grace. Listen again, I want to say this and I want to
make sure it's abundantly clear. The fact that our God is gracious, the fact that one of these twin
boys is in the genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ and that our Savior came from the tribe of Judah
does not promote sinful living. It doesn't. And on so many levels, all of those other truths that
we shared this evening from this portion of Scripture could cause us, should cause us to say,
I don't want to sin. I understand I have the flesh and I'm still going to sin and so are you,
but I look at sin and I say, I don't want to sin. We look at the cost, we understand what it cost
our Savior and we understand how it forfeits and how it jeopardizes our walk with God,
our fellowship with God. My relationship with God is consistent. I'm still his child. He's
still my father. What a blessing. But don't you want the fellowship with your Savior to be sweet?
The songwriter said, nothing between my soul and my Savior. We find that Paul says that he
exercised himself to be, to have always a conscience that was pure before God and man.
And this evening, we look at a portion of Scripture like Genesis 38, you say,
pastor, some wicked things that were recorded in that passage of Scripture. Thanks be to God that
he hasn't recorded your life and my life. As we look at these principles this evening,
understand every human being has a sin nature. Understand and recognize this evening you cannot
control the consequences of your sin. You just can't do it. Number three, you cannot hide your
sin from God. He knows all about it. Number four, sin is deceptive. We get so busy looking at others,
look at what they're doing, look at what they're, we can do it with the world. We can look at what's
going on in the headlines. Say, can you see what's going on in the world? While at the same time,
we're ignoring our own sin. But God is gracious. Thank God. Thank God for his grace. Listen,
you can come and just say, Lord, search me. If there be any wicked way in me, say,
I don't even have to ask. I know God's already pointed things out in my life. Can I tell you
this evening? Confess it and find forgiveness. God uses clean vessels. I want to be a vessel
that's meat for the master's use. Let's pray. Father, we love you. Thank you for loving us.
Lord, I pray this evening that in so many ways this message has been preventative. But God,
I'm not so naive to believe that in a room of any size that there's unconfessed sin. God,
I pray that in this moment of invitation, as we take just a few moments, I pray, Lord,
that we do business with you, that we'd allow the Holy Spirit to have his will and way. God,
we would come to you and seek your forgiveness. God, that we determine that we would flee
youthful lust, as Paul speaks to Timothy about. God, that we determine in our lives that we're
going to walk in the Spirit so we would not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Maybe it's with
some things that we need to change in our lives, some things we need to get rid of,
some controls we need to put in place. I don't know what it might be. But God,
I pray that your Spirit would work in the hearts of your people, that we do business
with you tonight. Lord, that we could leave and truly be able to sing that song,
There's Nothing Between My Soul and My Savior. I thank you that you're a gracious, merciful God.
I thank you that with thee there's forgiveness, that you are ready to pardon, ready to forgive.
I pray that you'd move and work in these moments as only you can. We'll thank you for what you'll
do, for it's in Christ's name we pray. Would you stand with me? Heads are bowed,
eyes are closed. Kimberly's going to play quietly on the piano. And as she does, the altar is open.